All right, let's talk about
dependencies for a second.
Deno handles dependencies in
an entirely different way.
It doesn't have a concept of NPM and NPM
modules and the way that we've installed
things in the past, and
you'll see that as we go forward today.
Dependencies have been a long
point of controversy, for
as long as I can remember.
I'm sure since computers have existed.
And this is true across all languages,
all platforms, all runtimes,
it doesn't matter if it's NPM,
it doesn't matter if it's Maven,
it doesn't matter if it's Newgen,
everywhere dependencies are just hard.
This is one of the hardest problems
that people have to solve.
And the reason for this is that
dependencies almost always take other
dependencies, then those
dependencies have dependencies.
And so what you end up with is this giant,
exploded dependency tree where
you have to take a million dependencies
to do something very, very simple.
And all of those dependencies could
have bugs or security flaws, right?
How do you know that the cross-env package
isn't used by a dependency somewhere down
the line that you don't even know about?
You don't, there's no way for
you to know that.
So the dependencies manager's job,
by dependency manager,
like NPM is to keep track of dependencies.
And to make sure that if the chain gets
updated, your whole project doesn't break.
You may have seen a file in Node
called the Package lock file.
And that's what the Package lock file is
attempting to do, is to allow you to lock
your dependencies down so that if someone
updates a dependency somewhere it doesn't
break the project when someone else
tries to run it or when you deploy it.
So what's wrong with the way
Node handles dependencies today?
What's wrong with NPM?
And how can that be different?
Well, there's a couple
of different things.
One of them is that NPM is the central
package repository for Node.
Yes, technically anyone can
set up a package repository.
Many people have private ones for
enterprises, secure ones,
but by and large it is the place for
you where you find a package.
Is that a bad thing?
Maybe, maybe not.
You may recall last year there were
some escalating issues with NPM as it
tried to generate enough
revenue to stay afloat.
Serving up packages to every JavaScript
developer but which by the way,
is the most popular programming
language according to multiple surveys.
Serving a package to everybody in
the world is an expensive operation.
People talk about a lot
about cloud computing, but
what most people don't know about
cloud computing is the highest cost.
In cloud computing is bandwidth.
And bandwidth is how much
you move out of the cloud.
So if you put data in the cloud and
you pull it out, you have to pay for that.
And NPM is basically covering
these massive bandwidth bills.
And that money has got
to come from somewhere.
And they almost didn't make it.
But GitHub stepped in and
purchased NPM earlier this year,
possibly preventing what could have been
the collapse of essentially where all of
our Node packages live.
Which is kind of a terrifying idea,
it's a single point of failure.
Again, is that a bad thing?
I don't know, maybe, maybe not.
It's a philosophical question.
It's incredibly convenient to
have a central place to look for
any code that you might need rather than
having it strewn all over the Internet.
But it's also probably
that single point is why
the adaption of Node has been so quick.
Because it's so
easy to find what you need.
But for that convenience, the trade
off is a single point of failure and
one repository that's now owned by
a single corporation, Microsoft.
Some people may not feel good about that.
And some people are fine with it.
The other thing that he talks about in his
video is he laments the package.json file.
So, this is one of the things that
I found to be a bit of a nitpick.
But, Ryan's problem with
the package.json file is that he
feels like that there's a lot of
boilerplate in it and that it's bloat.
Like it has no point, and for what?
And I kind of agree with this.
So, let's do this.
Let's look at
the dependency
hell branch and
let's do this.
Let's just initialize this project for
Node or for NPM, rather.
So I'm just gonna do NPM init.
And when I do that,
it just starts asking me questions.
So it's like, what's the name?
It's deno-exercise.
What's the version?
I don't even know yet.
I'm just trying to get started,
I don't know, 0.0.1.
The description,
exercises for deno, right?
And then it just keeps going on,
and on, and on.
You're like,
I don't know what any of this stuff is.
Why do I need keywords?
Does this really matter?
What's the licence?
I don't even understand this and
then you're like yes.
And if you have a package that json fil.
And we've all just kind of
gotten used to doing this.
Like we don't even really think about it.
We just accept that this is the case.
But do we really need all this?
Now sometimes we do.
Things like VS Code is taken to
using some of these properties.
So that if you publish a VS Code
extension, it looks at the version and
the description some of these things to
determine metadata about your published
extension.
But for the most part, this is
boilerplate stuff that we don't want.
Now, I should point out that you can,
if you didn't know this,
what you can do instead,
this is for free, you can just do.
So you can do npm init-y.
And that will just give
you all the defaults and
create the package.json file for you and
fill it all in based on what it can tell.
But this is his primary hang up with this
package.json files that he feels like it's
just gotten out of hand and
that it's mostly extraneous,
unnecessary information.
The other problem is that
the package.json file configures to
what we would call the bloat of
configuration files in repos.
And this is become a real topic of
controversy in the JavaScript community,
the project that contain this
course is a Gatsby project.
And look at all of the config files that
are in the root directory of this thing.
There's a package, and a package lock,
and a Gatsby config, and a prettier, and
a gitignore.
And it's just the explosion of config
files, it's just becoming a real problem.
It's common to have dozens of
them in your root directory.
And so the package.json is
just another one of those.
The other thing that he talks
about is the Node modules folder.
And the Node modules folder
has become notorious for
just being exceptionally large.
You have no idea how many dependencies
you're getting self into and
often the folder just balloons
into a laughable size.
So let me show you how this happens.
So some packages,
let's install something very common.
So, let's install Axios.
By the way, I didn't know until like three
years ago that you don't have to type
install, you can just type dash I.
See what I mean about not knowing things,
that's me, the other guy.
I don't know that you can
do just dash just I there.
And this one install Axios.
So let's take a look.
So what did we get when we did that?
We got Axios, okay?
Which we asked for but
then we also got follow redirects.
Now I have no idea why Axios needs that.
I don't have a problem with that, right?
That's fine.
Clearly, Axio salts some reason to use
that and not rewrite that code themselves.
Okay, that's not a big deal.
Now let's do something else.
Let's install React Scripts.
Now React Scripts is the library that
React uses when you do a Create React App.
This is the core, this is the main module,
all that's built on if you were to
create an app with Create React App.
And what's gonna happen here is it's
gonna pull down that React Scripts and
all of the dependencies
that React Scripts needs.
And you can see this is
taking a little bit of time.
And it's a lot faster than it used to be.
But we used to have this joke that you
could run NPM install, and then go make
lunch, call your mother, watch some TV,
come back and NPM install would be done.
Now it's a lot faster now.
But the reason why it's so
slow and it takes so
long is that it is pulling down
a massive amount of packages.
And in fact, when this thing is done, this
Node module's folder is gonna be somewhere
in the neighborhood of 350
megabytes worth of JavaScript.
And that's just a ton of code and
there will be so
many modules inside this
Node modules folder that
we will no longer have any idea what any
of them are for or why they're there.
This has just become something
that we've accepted as just sort
of a general truth that the Node
modules folder is enormous.
And that's just how it is.
And Ryan just sort of feels
like that's a problem.
And you can see here,
because I don't have a gitignore,
even VS Code is like there's so
many files in this project.
I can't even track them all.
And that's because this is
the Node modules folder now.
Look at it, look at this, right?
And this is why we make jokes about how
we're pulling down all of the Internet to
build a website.
It It just feels incredibly heavy.
Now this is not a shot
at React by any stretch.
React is a phenomenal thing.
It's just to point out it
is a ubiquitous problem.
It is the situation in Node.
And so the way that Deno thinks about
dependencies is completely differently.
It doesn't have a Node modules folder.
It handles them in
an entirely different way.
In cases where you need to deploy
a Node app to your server,
the NPM install has to
happen there as well.
So many of you have probably accidentally
checked in your Node modules folder, and
it just takes forever.
Or you tried to publish it on accident,
it takes forever.
And so you have to publish your project
and then run an NPM install on the server.
And that's an extra step and
can take a while.
What Deno really wants,
what it really wants is for
you to be able to compile your Deno
project into a single executable,
that you can then deploy like an EXE,
something about it.
You have a JavaScript project,
you compile it, it's an EXE,
you send it off to a server and it runs,
whether Deno is installed or not.
So that's what Deno
really wants to do here.
That's the long-term vision.